%%%
title = "JSON Proof Token"
abbrev = "jpa"
docName = "draft-jmiller-json-proof-token-latest"
category = "info"
ipr = "none"
workgroup="todo"
keyword = ["jose", "zkp", "jwp", "jws", "jpt"]

[seriesInfo]
name = "Internet-Draft"
value = "draft-jmiller-json-proof-token"
status = "standard"

[pi]
toc = "yes"

[[author]]
initials = "J."
surname = "Miller"
fullname = "Jeremie Miller"
organization = "Ping Identity"
  [author.address]
   email = "jmiller@pingidentity.com"

%%%

.# Abstract

JSON Proof Token (JPT) is a compact, URL-safe, privacy enabled means of representing claims to be transferred between three parties.  The claims in a JPT are encoded as JSON objects that are used as the payloads of a JSON Web Proof (JWP) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed and selectively disclosed.  JPTs also support reusability and unlinkability when using Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs).

{mainmatter}

# Introduction

JSON Proof Token (JPT) is a compact claims representation format intended to be used in the same ways as a JWT but with additional support for selective disclosure and unlinkability.  JPTs encode claim values to be transmitted as JSON payloads of a JSON Web Proof (JWP).  JPTs are always represented using the JWP Compact Serialization.

# Conventions and Definitions

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 [@!RFC2119] [@RFC8174]
when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

# Background

JWP defines a clean abstraction around the parts of a container binding together a protected header and one or more payloads.  It does not define any details about how claims are organized and what formats the payloads are in.  JPTs are intended to be as close to a JWT as possible, while also supporting the selective disclosure and unlinkability of JWPs.

# Design Considerations

Key drivers of the approach shaping JPT.

## Unlinkability

* reduce the complexity of issuance, less chance of accidential link leakage
* minimize the payloads
* reference external static structures instead of included dynamic ones

## Selective Disclosure

* holder must be able to understand all payloads to provide choice/consent
* needs to be simple to resolve exact context for each payload

## Familiarity

Should be as easy as possible to transition from a JWT to a JPT.

# Layout

* JSON structure is external to JPT
* ideally embedded in JWK for ease of resolution
* may be known by context
* values can be direct references to payload indexes
* indirect references are app specific

Layout definition object, using single-integer-value arrays as the index references to which payload:
```json
"jpl": {
  "email": [0],
  "name": [1],
  "exp": [2]
}
```

# Payloads

Application resolves each reference as required when processing the layout.  Resolution can result in one of three things:
1. A disclosed JSON value
2. A proof method
3. A `null` value

## Disclosed

* all referenced directly by layout are JSON strings
* may be indirect references w/ non-JSON values

## Proofs

* proof methods can be returned instead of a disclosed payload
* these are generated by the algorithm from information in the JWP's proof value
* a proof method may be custom based on the capabilities of the algorithm
* define common proof method types avalable?
  * range
  * membership
  * time
  * knowledge
  * linking

# Security Considerations

* Protected Header Minimization


# IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

{backmatter}
